ALL:Perceptions of climate change among producers are more skewed towards disbelief of anthropogenic climate change than the general public in this region and nation. However, producers are more apt to acknowledge observing changes in weather patterns in their lifetime, with no one “strongly disagreeing” and less than 7% “somewhat disagreeing.” Extension communications focusing on soil organic matter, soil moisture conservation, and managing nitrogen inputs have been successful in addressing climate change adaptation and mitigation—without saying so. OREGON: Of all the counties within the study, the top four most frequently selecting “strongly disagree” with respect to human-caused climate are counties in Oregon. We recommend, that with this strong level of disagreement, avoiding “climate change” as a term. However, conservation tillage and no-till practices have been widely adopted among survey respondents, and prior adaptation is often a good indicator of future adaptability.Baker/Gilliam/Wallowa:Partially supplied by water from the Wallowa Mountains and Snake River, these counties’ producers may benefit from discussions of snow pack and water availability timing as a proxy for climate change and for introducing conservation methods. Discussing climate change directly will likely be dismissed because respondents here were most likely to “disagree” and “strongly disagree” with human-cause climate change. Tillage practices here are more evenly distributed than other counties and likely any approach will require diverse communication, especially across irrigated and dryland agriculture, because they face different climatic challenges. Wasco: Conservation and no-till practices have been widely adopted among respondents. Although past adoption of tillage practices indicate a level of adaptive capacity, these producers are less likely to adapt to climate change by changing their tillage practices. Instead, a focus on rotation and soil moisture conservation will be more effective. Introduce newer topics like gasses contributions to soil composition and how in the long-term this could affect your production. Additionally you can prepare for the future by discussing the increased frequency of drought; that is, “climate change loads the dice for drought” and preparing management strategies that include this will benefit your producers. Umatilla:Umatilla County is one of the most conservative counties in our study: Majority of respondents do not agree that climate change is human-caused. Conversely, it also has a large proportion of producers who agree that climate change is human-caused. In this way, the county is polarized and certain, requiring two strategies for communication, but focused on the same topics. Aggressive adopters are likely to adapt to climate change, potentially improving soil organic carbon to secure more soil moisture conservation as they face increasing likelihood of drought. Avoiding the term climate change will improve interactions among conventional tillage producers about improving soil health. Morrow:With respect to human-caused climate change, Morrow County presents a place of potential. More than a third of respondents who see climate change as neither human-caused, nor not-human-caused. In other studies, often “neither” indicates a preference for both human and natural causes contributing to the changes in climate and weather. Jefferson/Wheeler:Sherman: Conservation and no-till practices have been widely adopted among respondents. Although past adoption of tillage practices indicate a level of adaptive capacity, these producers are less likely to adapt to climate change by changing their tillage practices. Instead, a focus on rotation and soil moisture conservation will be more effective. Introduce newer topics like gasses contributions to soil composition and how in the long-term this could affect your production. Additionally you can prepare for the future by discussing the increased frequency of drought; that is, “climate change loads the dice for drought” and preparing management strategies that include this will benefit your producers. With respect to human-caused climate change, Sherman County presents a place of potential. More than a third of respondents who see climate change as neither human-caused, nor not-human-caused. In other studies, often “neither” indicates a preference for both human and natural causes contributing to the changes in climate and weather. WASHINGTON:Columbia: Similar to Wasco on tillageAsotin:Garfield: With respect to human-caused climate change, Garfield County presents a place of potential. More than a third of respondents who see climate change as neither human-caused, nor not-human-caused. In other studies, often “neither” indicates a preference for both human and natural causes contributing to the changes in climate and weather. Walla Walla:Franklin:Benton/Chelan/Yakima:Klickitat:Grant: Lincoln: With respect to human-caused climate change, Lincoln County presents a place of potential. More than a third of respondents who see climate change as neither human-caused, nor not-human-caused. In other studies, often “neither” indicates a preference for both human and natural causes contributing to the changes in climate and weather. Spokane:Douglas: With respect to human-caused climate change, Douglas County presents a place of potential. More than a third of respondents who see climate change as neither human-caused, nor not-human-caused. In other studies, often “neither” indicates a preference for both human and natural causes contributing to the changes in climate and weather. Adams:Whitman: Whitman County largely has adopted soil conservation tillage practices; however, 20% have maintained conventional tillage in a high rainfall zone. On the other hand there are 20% of respondents who believe climate change is caused by humans—a key indicator for responding to climate change. An additional 25% selected “neither,” indicating an opportunity for discussion. This area is particularly polarized however and practicing multiple climate change communication strategies, focusing on best practices and opportunities for climate adaptation: It’s important to remember that in the next 30 years, this county is likely to benefit from climate change. IDAHO: With respect to human-caused climate change, the state of Idaho presents a place of potential. More than a third of respondents who see climate change as neither human-caused, nor not-human-caused. In other studies, often “neither” indicates a preference for both human and natural causes contributing to the changes in climate and weather. Benewah/Clearwater/Kootenai:With respect to human-caused climate change, these counties presents a place of potential. More than a third of respondents who see climate change as neither human-caused, nor not-human-caused. In other studies, often “neither” indicates a preference for both human and natural causes contributing to the changes in climate and weather. Latah:Latah County is more evenly distributed across the spectrum of human-caused climate change, providing opportunities for multiple forms of communication. Only 10% of respondents have maintained conventional tillage practices, indicating that past adoption of conservation practices could lead to future adoption of new practices. Consider communicating climate change as an opportunity because for the next thirty years, the wetter areas are likely to be “climate winners”: better conditions for producing winter wheat. However the risks of increased erosion due to the timing of precipitation should be addressed despite current cropping insurance incentives for prevented planting. Although crop consultants do not advise on crop insurance decisions, it would be worthwhile to incorporate this into the informal strategy—especially if insurance policy changes. Lewis:  With respect to human-caused climate change, Lewis County presents a place of potential. More than a third of respondents who see climate change as neither human-caused, nor not-human-caused. In other studies, often “neither” indicates a preference for both human and natural causes contributing to the changes in climate and weather. Nez Perce:Idaho:Adams: